The objective of this project is to build an SDN controller that has the capabilities of a router and a switch. 
Mininet emulation software is used for this project: https://github.com/mininet/openflow-tutorial/wiki
SSH applications like putty or Mobaxterm are recommended for this project.

Some basic background knowledge running this SDN project on Mininet topology could be found here: https://youtu.be/BZH0AO9OsKg

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Switch supports the following:

•	Broadcast ethernet frames with unknown destination MAC address on all ports

•	Broadcast ethernet frames with Layer 2 Broadcast MAC address on all ports

•	Broadcast ethernet frames with known destination MAC only on the port corresponding to the MAC

•	Once the MAC to port mapping is learnt by the controller for a switch port, it should install OpenFlow rules in the switch so that subsequent packets should not come to the controller. The conditions and actions should be determined by you and the OpenFlow rules should be installed accordingly by controller in the switches in the topology.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Router supports the following:

•	Reply to ARP requests that are destined to router. 

•	Ignore ARP requests that are not destined to router.

•	Packet forwarding based on destination IP address in packet header by making a route lookup in the routing table using Longest Prefix Matching (LPM).

•	Support for default routes.

•	Support for buffering packets if there is no MAC address for a destination host in the router cache. ARP request should be generated by router when a packet destined to a host in a network attached to the routers interface is received. Once the ARP reply is received by the router, the router should retrieve the queued packets and forward them to the hosts on the 
appropriate port.

•	Support for ICMP Echo Reply (Ping reply if ping request received for router’s interface IP address)

•	Support for ICMP Network Unreachable - in case router cannot find a route tothe destination IP address in the packet.

•	Once the controller determines the output port for a destination IP address, it should install OpenFlow rules in the router so that subsequent packets should not come to the controller. The conditions and actions should be determined by you and the OpenFlow rules should be installed accordingly by controller in the routers in the topology.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The below is the list of files and the locations to copy them.

controller_1.py - controller file for scenario 1 - "/home/mininet/pox/pox/misc/" 

controller_2.py - controller file for scenario 2 - "/home/mininet/pox/pox/misc/"

controller_3.py - controller file for scenario 3 - "/home/mininet/pox/pox/misc/"

controller_3b.py - controller file for scenario 3b - "/home/mininet/pox/pox/misc/"

router.py - file for writing the code of router - "/home/mininet /pox/pox/misc/" 

switch.py - file for writing the code for switch - "/home/mininet /pox/pox/misc/"

topology_1.py - topology file for scenario 1 - "/home/mininet/mininet/custom/"

topology_2.py - topology file for scenario 2 - "/home/mininet/mininet/custom/"

topology_3.py - topology file for scenario 3 - "/home/mininet/mininet/custom/"

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commands to start controllers to be given from the folder – “/home/mininet/pox”

Commands to start topology to be given from the folder – “/home/mininet/mininet/custom”

Ensure you issue “sudo mn -c” (from any folder) before starting the controller and topology Always.

controller should be started first, followed by topology.

Controller - ./pox.py log.level --DEBUG misc.controller_$

Topology - sudo mn --custom topology_$.py --topo mytopo --mac --controller remote 
